---
title: "Open Source Contributor Agreements: Purpose and Scope"
date: 2010-08-06 08:34:23 -0400
---

Contributor Agreements, also known as Contributor License Agreements
(CLA), are increasingly being adopted by open source projects.  This
article explains the purpose of these Contributor Agreements.

When a contribution is made to an open source project, there is an
implicit assumption (and sometimes explicit consent) that the
contribution (code, translation, artwork, etc) may be incorporated into
the project and distributed under the license the project is using.
However, many conditions of the contribution are not explicitly called
out.  The purpose of Contributor Agreements is to make the terms under
which contributions are made explicit, thereby protecting the project,
the users of the software and often also the contributors.

Apache Software Foundation (ASF) <a href =
"http://www.apache.org/licenses/#clas">describes the aim</a> of their
CLA in this way: "The purpose of this agreement is to clearly define the
terms under which intellectual property has been contributed to the ASF
and thereby allow us to defend the project should there be a legal
dispute regarding the software at some future time."  Contributor
Agreements also ensure that contributions cannot be withdrawn by the
contributor, as the <a href =
"https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/cla/faq/">FAQ for the Django
CLA</a> explains: "The CLA also ensures that once you have provided a
contribution, you cannot try to withdraw permission for its use at a
later date.  People and companies can therefore use Django, confident
that they will not be asked to stop using pieces of the code at a later
date."

Contributor Agreements therefore provide confidence that there likely
won't be any legal issues in the future regarding the individual
contributions that make up the project, such as disputes over origin and
ownership.  A downside of Contributor Agreements is that they pose a
small overhead and barrier to contribution.  This can particularly be a
problem for minor contributors who may feel that getting their fixes
accepted is not worth the hassle of filling out a Contributor Agreement.

Which points do Contributor Agreements generally cover?  There is a lot
of variation among Contributor Agreements but the following areas are
often covered:

<ul>

<li>Copyright: contributors grant a broad set of permissions and they
are sometimes asked to assign their copyright to the project.  The
Contributor Agreement also ensures that contributors are entitled to
contribute their changes to the project.</li>

<li>Trademarks: contributors ensure that marks (if there are any) are
owned by the project rather than by individual contributors.  This
avoids possible disputes in the future if contributors leave a
project.</li>

<li>Patents: contributors grant a patent license to the project in order
to ensure that a contributor cannot attack the project in the future by
asserting its patents against it.</li>

<li>Moral rights: contributors are asked not to assert any moral rights
(where they exist) in order to stop derivative works.</li>

<li>Contributions by minors: some Contributor Agreements define how
contributions by minors are handled.</li>

</ul>

I'll give an overview of some Contributor Agreements in a future
article.

