---
title: "Obstacles for making FOSS development truly global"
date: 2008-02-21 15:56:00 +0200
---

Li Yang, who works for Freescale Semiconductor, gave a very interesting
talk at linux.conf.au a few weeks ago about the obstacles of getting people
from all around the world involved in FOSS projects.  He started off by
saying that he'd like FOSS to be really global, and not just global in the
sense that developers from North America, Europe and Australia are
involved.

He started by comparing Internet usage and FOSS involvement of different
parts of the world.  The US, Europe and Australia make up about 45% of
Internet users while 55% come from other parts of the world.  He also noted
that Internet usage is growing particularly fast in Brazil, China, India
and Russia.  When you look at FOSS development, you see a different
picture.  He looked at the attendees of the Linux Kernel Summit 2007 and
found that 51% were from the US, 32% from Europe, 9% from Australia and
only 8% from other countries.  He also presented some statistics from
SourceForge that showed a similar picture: 36% of developers are from the
US, 40% from Europe, 3% from Australia and 21% from other parts of the
world.  His conclusion was that it's important to get more people from
Asia, Africa and other underrepresented regions involved.

His presentation followed with obstacles associated with the participation
in an international community.  Unsurprisingly, language is a big problem.
Learning English can be hard for people from China and other countries
whose native language is not part of the Indo-European family.  While many
educated people in China can actually read English at a basic level,
written and spoken English is often poor because of lack of practice.  This
makes communication slow, misunderstandings are more common and it's
difficult to express yourself clearly.

The problem is not just with language, though.  Culture is also an
important factor.  For example, direct criticism is taken as an insult in
China.  This is a problem since the patch review process can be very
direct.  Furthermore, Li Yang argued that Chinese people are more effective
in close-knit teams whereas the FOSS community prefers to form loosely-knit
teams.

Time difference is another problem.  For example, China has a 8-12 hour
time difference to Europe and the US.  This makes it hard to use real-time
communication, like IRC.  While e-mail works fairly well, communication is
quite slow since each round of discussion takes a whole day.  Finally,
developers in China have less time for hobbies and so it's often hard to
get more people involved.  There are also some problems with net access.
For example, sourceforge.net and freebsd.org used to be banned by the
government and wikipedia.org is still banned.

Li Yang finished his presentation by sharing his experience with local
communities.  The idea is to establish a local community in a country with
members who can talk to each other in their own language.  A local
community should also have some experts who are part of the international
community.  Those experts can then help other members with sending bug
reports or patches to the international community for feedback.  This way,
it's ensured that the local community has at least some connections to the
global community and hopefully over time members of the local community
will get more experience interacting with the global community.

(Originally published on <a href = "https://fossbazaar.org/">FOSSBazaar</a>)

