---
title: "Differences between paid and volunteer FOSS contributors"
date: 2008-10-02 22:33:24 +0200
---

There's a lot of debate these days about the impact of the increasing
number of paid developers in FOSS communities that started as volunteer
efforts and still have significant numbers of volunteers.  Evangelia
Berdou's <a href = "http://opensource.mit.edu/papers/PhD_Berdou.pdf">PhD
thesis</a> "Managing the Bazaar: Commercialization and peripheral
participation in mature, community-led Free/Open source software projects"
contains a contains a wealth of information and insights about this topic.

Berdou conducted interviews with members of the GNOME and KDE projects.
She found that paid developers are often identified with the core developer
group which is responsible for key infrastructure and often make a large
number of commits.  Furthermore, she suggested that the groups may have
different priorities: "whereas [paid] developers focus on technical
excellence, peripheral contributors are more interested in access and
practical use".

Based on these interviews, she formulated the following hypotheses which
she subsequently analyzed in more detail:

<ol>

<li>Paid developers are more likely to contribute to critical parts of the
code base.</li>

<li>Paid developers are more likely to maintain critical parts of the code
base.</li>

<li>Volunteer contributors are more likely to participate in aspects of the
project that are geared towards the end-user.</li>

<li>Programmers and peripheral contributors are not likely to participate
equally in major community events.</li>

</ol>

Berdou found all hypotheses to be true for GNOME but only hypothesis two
and four were confirmed for KDE.

In the case of GNOME, Berdou found that hired developers contribute to the
most critical parts of the project, that they maintained most modules in
core areas and that they maintained a larger number modules than
volunteers.  Two important differences were found in KDE: paid developers
attend more conferences and they maintain more modules.

Berdou's research contains a number of important insights:

<ul>

<li>Corporate contributions are important because paid developers
contribute a lot of changes, and they maintain core modules and code.</li>

<li>While it's clear that the involvement of paid contributors is
influenced by the strategy of their company, Berdou wonders whether another
reason why they often contribute to core code is because they "develop
their technical skills and their understanding of the code base to a
greater extent than volunteers who usually contribute in their free time".
It's therefore important that projects provide good documentation and other
help so volunteers can get up to speed quickly.</li>

<li>Since many volunteers cannot afford to attend community events,
projects should provide travel funds.  This is something I see more and
more: for example, Debian funds some developers to attend Debian conference
and the Linux Foundation has a grant program to allow developers to attend
events.</li>

<li>Paid developers often maintain modules they are not paid to directly
contribute to.  A reason for this is that they continue to maintain modules
in their spare time when their company tells them to work on other parts of
the code.</li>

</ul>

Personally, I'm also wondering why there are some significant differences
between GNOME and KDE.  For example, about 67% of contributors where paid
to work on GNOME whereas only 38% were paid to work on KDE.  Why do some
projects attract more commercial involvement whereas other projects
continue to be mostly volunteer based?  [<em>Update:</em> it was pointed
out that I made a mistake with these numbers.  In reality, 37% of GNOME
developers are paid to work on GNOME or GNOME and other FOSS according to
the PhD thesis.  The number for KDE was correct (38%).  So according to
this PhD there is not a lot of difference in the percentage of paid
developers between GNOME and KDE.  My original question still stands though
because there are many projects that don't attract much commercial
involvement at all.]

(Originally published on <a href = "https://fossbazaar.org/">FOSSBazaar</a>)

