---
title: "Amazing figures on the open source adoption in Finland"
created_at: 2008-10-18 20:47:43 +0200
kind: article
---

I attended Openmind last week, an interesting conference organized by the Finnish Centre for Open
Source Solutions (COSS) to bring together open source professionals,
community members and academics in Finland.  In the session about business
aspects of open source, in which I gave a talk about FOSS Governance, Nina
Helander and Mikko Rönkkö presented the preliminary results of the <a href=
"http://www.softwareindustrysurvey.org/">National Software Industry Survey
2008</a>.

I found the results incredibly interesting.  In particular, they found that
75% of responding firms use open source software in some way.  This figure
is up from approximately 13% in the year 2000, which is a major increase in
just a few years.  The study also found that that there was no
statistically significant difference of company size when it came to the
use of open source.  Finally, companies that have open source components in
their offering rate themselves as more innovative.

Roberto Galoppini, who moderated the session, commented that Finland is
where Gartner predicted that companies would be in 3 years.  Indeed, I
think everyone in the room was pleasantly surprised by the amazing numbers
from the survey.  We should not forget that the study was with software
companies and that the use of open source will certainly be lower in other
industries, but nevertheless the study shows that Finland is a leading
country when it comes to the adoption of FOSS.

(Originally published on <a href = "https://fossbazaar.org/">FOSSBazaar</a>)

