---
title: "Models and tools for FOSS quality"
created_at: 2008-01-31 04:47:00 +0200
kind: article
---

There has been interest in quality models for FOSS for a long time.  There
are various concerns about FOSS and the quality thereof.  Given that a lot
of FOSS is produced by volunteers, how can we rely on the software?  Is
software developed in the public more secure, or can people use the source
code to find exploits?  It's important to have an objective assessment of
the quality of a piece of software to address such questions.  Furthermore,
having good metrics allows users to choose between different software that
offers comparable functionality.  Given the large number of FOSS projects,
this problem is of growing concern.

Software quality is a tough nut to crack.  When you see and use a product,
you will usually form a judgement as to its quality pretty quickly.
However, if you try to develop rules for assessing the quality of a product
you'll find that it's really hard.  This is partly because there are so
many different components that make up quality, and that different people
put different emphasis on these components or see them in a different way.
While quality has a subjective component, there are several objective
components that can be measured.

There are number of researchers who are interested in developing tools and
models that can be used for empirical studies of quality in FOSS.  The EU
has recognized the need for such models and tools and is funding not only
one but several projects that study quality in FOSS:

<ul>

<li><a href = "http://www.qualoss.org/">QUALity in Open Source Software
(QUALOSS)</a>: QUALOSS will develop a high level methodology to benchmark
the quality of FOSS in order to ease the strategic decision of integrating
adequate FOSS components into software systems.  The QUALOSS platform uses
tools to analyze two types of data: source code and project-repository
information.  The goal is to estimate the evolvability and robustness of
the evaluated software products.</li>

<li><a href = "http://www.sqo-oss.org/">Software Quality Observatory for
Open Source Software (SQO-OSS)</a>: This project is developing a
comprehensive suite of software quality assessment tools.  These tools will
enable the objective analysis and benchmarking of FOSS.  SQO-OSS aims to
remove one of the key barriers to entry for FOSS by providing scientific
proof of its quality.</li>

<li><a href = "http://www.qsos.org/">Qualification and Selection of Open
Source Software (QSOS)</a>: QSOS is a method designed to qualify, select
and compare free and open source software in an objective, traceable and
argued way.  It consists of four different steps.</li>

<li><a href = "http://www.qualipso.org/">Quality Platform for Open Source
Software (QualiPSo)</a>: QualiPSo is a huge project which focuses on a
number of different areas.  As part of their activities on trustworthy
processes, they are interested in developing a Capability Maturity Model
(CMM) like model for FOSS.</li>

</ul>

These projects are very ambitious but they certainly have the potential to
make a great contribution.  There is also quite a bit of overlap between
these projects, which is why some of them have united and formed the <a
href = "http://flossquality.eu/">Flossquality initiative</a> (FLOSS stands
for &quot;free, libre and open source software&quot;).  These projects are
relatively young, but I look forward to their results.

(Originally published on <a href = "https://fossbazaar.org/">FOSSBazaar</a>)

